Hipnonvnus or CARDIA 135

that he would grant peace only on the condition that
they gave their 6111616 as hostages, and delivered
up their arms: 101 116 could put no trust in them
until they were disarmed. On the announcement 01
this answer by the deputies, the Grauis laughed, and
remarked that he would soon see whether they had
offered peace 101 his sake or 101 1311611 own. A few
days later the Macedonians were defeated and cut
to pieces in a battle. Ptolemy, severely wounded,
was captured; his severed head was placed on a
lance, and carried round the whole army to strike
terror into the enemy. A few 01 13116 Macedonians
found safety in flight; the rest were captured or
slain.1
XV. When this news was spread throughout u s re
Macedonia, the gates 01 13116 0113166 were shut, and os enes
mourning filled all the land. . . . While all were
thus in despair, Sosthenes, one 01 the Macedonian
0111616, thinking that nothing would be effected by
prayers, mustered the young men fit to bear arms,
repulsed the Gauls in the midst 01 their exultations
on their victory, and saved Macedonia from devasta-
tion. For these great services he was chosen before
manv nobles who aspired to the Macedonian throne,
although he was 01 101113 humble extraction. He was
saluted as King by the army, yet nevertheless he
made the soldiers take an oath to him, not as King,
but as general.
XVI. In the meanwhile Brennus, under whose Brennus in-

d s Maco-

command a division 01 the Gauls had made an ggnia.

